# Ansible Playbook for Shibboleth Identity Provider (IdP)


## Installation

* Clone the repository, replace <institution> with the actual name of your institution

        git clone  https://github.com/ubuntunet/eduID_IdentityProvider.git <institution>-idp
        cd <institution>-idp

### Inventory File

Create the inventory file for your institution, for more information: http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_inventory.html

        cp inventories/template inventories/<institution>

Open the inventory file with your favorite editor and change the ansible_host and ansible_user to your server environment. Don't forget to again replace <institution>.

### Variables File

Create the variables file for your institution, more information: http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/playbooks_variables.html

        cp group_vars/template group_vars/<institution>

Open the variable files in your favorite editor and adapt the values to your setup.


### Secrets File

Some values - passwords, credentials - are sensitive and should never be submitted to the Github repository. They are therefore stored in a file called secrets.yml, which is being ignored by Github.

Create the secrets.yml file

        cp group_vars/secrets.yml.example group_vars/serets.yml

Open the secrets.yml file and add the sensitive values.

There are many ways to create random passwords/passphrases/salt, I prefer to use openssl for this task. You can replace 12 with a higher number for longer strings.

        openssl rand -base64 12


### Run the playbook

        ansible-playbook -i inventories/<institution> identity_provider.yml 

If you want to try it out locally, and you have Vagrant/Virtualbox installed, the following command will run the playbook using the development inventory/variabels.

        vagrant up --provision



## Register on UbuntuNets Resource Registry 

UbuntuNet Alliance is running a resource registry at https://rr.ubuntunet.net. This registry can be used by all our member NRENs. Please get in contact with us (eduid@ubuntunet.net), so we can add you as a user.

